--- 
layout: page
title: "Blog like you are coming home."
author: "Author"
comments: true
---

## Hello blog, eh, I mean, world!
As far back as I can remember, I have always been writing. However, I have never blogged. Probably because I preferred the diary and the pen. Having caught a lot of flak for it from my friends, well-wishers, colleagues and bosses alike over the years, I finally decided to fix that.

But, I had conditions -
- Not much overhead beyond the writing.
- Retain maximum possible control over content, display and offline support.
- Also, I have a technical background so I wanted to learn something out of it.

*Note :* The first and the third above may be self-contradictory, but I am ok with that.

So I started looking. Now, traditional blogging platforms end up keeping my data. I didnt like that. 
Plus I havent seen good web-based blog editors. So the web based blogs weren't options I was inclined to
try first. Having encountered github blogging in the past and liked what I saw, I investigated it again. 
Soon, it was clear that the simplicity of a static site was hard to beat. The catch was, Github integrates 
Jekyl. Now Jekyll is good, but getting Jekyll on windows involves some fiddling and a good deal of ruby. 
Having recently gone through .Net Core, Scala, Spark, Azure and NodeJs recently in quick succession, I had 
no appetite for another. A little more looking, and I found [Pretzel](http://localhost:8080/#) - a .NET 
based static-site generator, plus extras.

Thus I settled. *(The living-happily-there-ever-after-question has no answers yet.)*
- Blogging should be simple. Hence Github pages.
- Blogging i.e. content, display and offline mode should remain in blogger's control. Hence pretzel and 
not jekyll. Also see [here](https://thomasfreudenberg.com/archive/2016/05/16/from-jekyll-to-pretzel/) for 
more details.
- And I get to dig into pretzel and maybe learn about static-site-generators.
- Oh, and I rather liked the [Jekyll Hyde Theme](https://github.com/poole/hyde).

Therefore, this blog is being served from a Github-pages static site, with the site template taken from 
the Jekyll theme called Hyde, actually being generated by Pretzel on local machine and getting checked 
into Github.

I just need to figure out markdown now, and then technically speaking, I am back to **build, compile, 
test and deploy**. Blog or not, thats like coming home.
